---
layout: post
title: "Things that Have Not Been Thought Through"
date: 2018-03-05
---

<p>Having lived in this city since September 2012, I’ve noticed some things that have affected my (and everyone else’s) quality of living that have started to bother me. These things are not putting native Hong Kongers in the spotlight because certainly everyone living here regardless of where we’re from is accountable for each of them. So, here are the three main things that bother me and affect everyone else, too:<p/>

<p><strong>Barely Any Waste Separation & Recycling</strong></p>
<p>If you are living in a country that requires you to separate your household waste, you know how fast waste piles up even with the simple items we consume everyday. I started to notice as I cooked more and separated the recyclable waste in my house (glass, plastic, paper, and metal) - it’s not long until you have a mountain of them stacking up. The problem in Hong Kong is that while there are some ongoing initiatives to sort waste at the source (according to the government), it isn’t common practice. When I throw out my trash each day, I can see (unfortunately) that obvious recyclables are in the mix and food waste isn’t separated either  . There are a decent number of waste separation bins in public areas, but often I see them misused and all sorts of rubbish sticking out of the categorized bin openings. Another major alarm trigger is fast food restaurants. Done with the food? Just leave, and the staff will take whatever was on your tray and dump them all into one baggie to go later to who-knows-where. Comparing this with neighbouring countries where even liquids are disposed of separately from other waste, what goes on here is abysmal. I’ll stop there for now, at least regarding waste.</p>

<p><strong>Air-Conditioning At Full-Throttle... in Winter</strong></p>
<p>Granted Hong Kong winters are comparatively mild, but with the winds and the humidity in the month’s prior mean we do feel the cold. Bare in mind, too, that there’s no central heating here. But, there is central air-conditioning which for some cruel and wasteful unknown reason, gets turn on even in the height of winter when it is 10 degree Celsius outside. This is not an isolated incident - I have friends who can back me up on this from whatever company they work. You might think then that there’s no problem in summers - given the notorious humidity of Hong Kong, air-conditioners must be a blessing. Well, not quite. They get too excited with those things, you will end up bringing the winter jacket out of the closet to wear at the office (but that’s a lot more up for debate than the situation in winter).</p>

<p><strong>Pedestrian Smokers</strong></p>
<p>People who walk and smoke, please don't. What I tell my friends without a hint of humour is that I end up having cigarette smoke before I can even have breakfast. While walking to work one day, I saw a smoker nonchalantly waiting at the pedestrian crossing and a baby right next to him clinging to its mother, breathing the smoky air that was puffed out. I was really taken aback by this  juxtaposition. And when that man, and other smokers, continue walking, they create a trail of cigarette smoke that is hard to avoid in a place as crowded as the streets of Hong Kong. Sometimes I hold my breath, sometimes I cough involuntarily, and sometimes I feel rightly sick. The orange public bins that litter the streets have ash trays on top of them and often you find smokers congregated around them. That doesn’t help. Maybe if there weren’t so many ashtrays the cigarette butts would be decorating the streets but I can’t help but feel the bin-ashtrays give them too much permission to smoke in public and by extension too much permission to damage the health of innocent people.</p>

<p>This is not intended to be a highly-edited, researched, revised post. That could come later. For today, I wanted to express my opinions without being tied down by perfectionism.</p>
